.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH hashline 1  "hashline 0.1.2" 
.SH NAME
hashline \- Line\-addressable file editing with content hashes
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBhashline\fR [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] [\fB\-V\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR] <\fIsubcommands\fR>
.SH DESCRIPTION
Hashline tags each line of a file with a short content hash (LINE:HASH), allowing AI coding agents to reference lines by anchor rather than reproducing exact text. Hash mismatches after file changes are detected before any edit is applied, preventing silent corruption.
.PP
Hash algorithm: xxHash32(whitespace_stripped_line, seed=0) % 256, formatted as 2 hex chars.
.PP
Exit codes: 0 = success, 1 = hash mismatch (stderr has updated anchors), 2 = other error.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help (see a summary with \*(Aq\-h\*(Aq)
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
hashline\-read(1)
Read a file and output hashline\-formatted content
.TP
hashline\-apply(1)
Apply hashline edits from stdin JSON to a file
.TP
hashline\-hash(1)
Output line hashes for a file
.TP
hashline\-help(1)
Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)
.SH EXTRA
AGENT WORKFLOW
Add the contents of HASHLINE_TEMPLATE.md to your project\*(Aqs CLAUDE.md,
AGENTS.md, or equivalent agent instructions file. The full workflow:

1. hashline read src/foo.rs
Output: LINE:HASH|content for each line. Collect anchors for lines to change.

2. cat << \*(AqEOF\*(Aq | hashline apply
{"path":"src/foo.rs","edits":[{"set_line":{"anchor":"4:01","new_text":"..."}}]}
EOF
Edits are atomic — all validate before any mutation. On hash mismatch
(exit 1), stderr shows updated LINE:HASH refs; retry with those anchors.

3. hashline read \-\-start\-line 3 \-\-lines 5 src/foo.rs
Verify just the changed region without re\-reading the whole file.

EDIT OPERATIONS
set_line      Replace one line:    {"set_line":{"anchor":"4:01","new_text":"..."}}
replace_lines Replace a range:     {"replace_lines":{"start_anchor":"3:7f","end_anchor":"5:0e","new_text":"..."}}
insert_after  Insert after anchor: {"insert_after":{"anchor":"2:b2","text":"..."}}
replace       Exact substring:     {"replace":{"old_text":"...","new_text":"..."}}

Use "new_text":"" in replace_lines to delete a range.
Use \\n in strings for multi\-line content.
Batch multiple edits to one file in a single apply call.
replace edits run after all anchor edits and error on ambiguous matches.
.SH VERSION
v0.1.2
